---
title: Find My Device
description: A Self Hosted Google Find My Device Alternative
Author: ippo
image: assets/images/fmd.png
categories:
    - alternative
    - maps
tags:
    - alternative
    - maps
---

An open source app that  remote controls by sms and web interface the android device by means of getting the curent location, the location history,make it ring,get stats,or completely wipe/factory rreset it.

> At its core, FMD is just a binary that you can run directly.

> here we will see how to selfhost the server running the service with systemd but also athe docker-compose implemntation

# Systemd

1) requires go lang installed on the host machine

i had to install it over aur on manjaro arm

`sudo pacman -S yay`

`yay install -S go`

debian

`sudo apt install golang-go `

or if you dont like package manager from source

`https://golang.org/doc/install`

2) clone the repo

`git clone https://gitlab.com/Nulide/findmydeviceserver.git`

or download and extract the source

`https://gitlab.com/Nulide/findmydeviceserver/-/releases`

3) navigate on the apropriate cloned/extracted folder 

`cd ~/findmydeviceserver/src`

4) build the project

`sudo go build fmdserver.go`

5) test that it runs smooth

`~/findmydeviceserver/src/fmdserver`

6) navigate to localhost:1020

7) stop the server

`ctrl + c`

8) edit the .service file

`nano etc/systemd/system/fmdserver.service`

replace the executable filepath

`ExecStart=/home/user/findmydeviceserver/src/fmdserver`

filepath have to be ansolute . replace user with your username

9) copy file to systemd

`sudo cp /home/ippo/findmydeviceserver/src/etc/systemd/system/fmdserver.service /usr/lib/systemd/system/fmdserver.service`

10) start the service

`sudo systemctl start fmdserver`

11) enable the service

`sudo systemctl enable fmdserver`

12) for https i am using caddy and reverse proxying the unsecure 1020 port with another port as caddy adds automaticly the certificate and encryption

`sudo nano /etc/caddy/Caddyfile`

add

`your.domain.name:an.open.router.port {
       reverse_proxy localhost:1020
  }`

 so if lets say you have a ddns names ippo.cratis.net and have opened 8000 port on your router and port forwording that port on your raspberry/linux machine that caddyfile should look like

`ippo.cratis.net:8000 {
      reverse_proxy localhost:1020
 }
`

now you can saffely access your fmd server froom ippo.cratis.net:8000

# Docker Compose

```
docker-compose.yml

version: '3'
services:
    fmd:
        build: https://gitlab.com/Nulide/findmydeviceserver.git#v0.4.0
        container_name: fmd
        ports:
         - 127.0.0.1:8080:8080
        volumes:
            - './data:/fmd/objectbox/'
        restart: unless-stopped
```


Replace the version with the latest release.

- Persisting storage:
- 
FMD has a database and needs to persist it across container restarts.
You need to mount a Docker volume at /fmd/objectbox/ inside the container.
It must be readable and writable by uid 1000 (ideally it is owned by uid 1000).
This example mounts a folder named ./data (in the current directory outside the container).

- Networking:
FMD Server listens for HTTP connections on port 8080.
This example has a port mapping from "127.0.0.1:8080" (on the host) to port 8080 (inside the container).

- Reverse Proxy

With Caddy:

Caddyfile

`fmd.example.com {
	reverse_proxy localhost:8080
}`


Caddy will automatically create a Let's Encrypt certificate for you.
