---
layout: post
title:  "Nextcloud under docker with caddy webserver mariadb and mtls auth"
author: ippo
author: sv1sjp
categories: [ server, caddy, sync, mtls ]
tags: [ server, caddy, sync, mtls ]
image: assets/images/nc.png
---

**Install nextcloud-fpm with caddy2 docker container and caddy2 as reverse proxy on host**

For starters i would like to thank [Dimitris Vagiakakos @sv1sjp](https://github.com/sv1sjp) for his additions and corrections to the original post.
Together with his additions for drive mountings,https redirect,file sharing and rescanning i also added the database selection section.
So,
read and enjoy

>The official docker images of nextcloud comes in 2 versions. 

>One with a built-in apache web server and an fpm one for use with any web server we want and which is based on the php-fpm docker image and runs fastCGI-Process 
which serve the pages of Nextcloud. 

>In their examples they provide an example using nginx docker image.

>Here we will see how to use it with a caddy2 webserver docker container which will return the http requests to the FastCGI-port of the container.


----

**Creating docker-compose.yml**

```
mkdir ncfpm
cd ncfpm
nano docker-compose.yml
```

paste

```
 version: '2'
  
 volumes:
   nextcloud:
   db:
   caddy_data:
 
 services:
   db:
     image: mariadb
     command: --transaction-isolation = READ-COMMITTED --binlog-format = ROW
     restart: unless-stopped
     volumes:
       - db: /var/lib/mysql
     environment:
       - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD = root-pw
       - MYSQL_PASSWORD = pw
       - MYSQL_DATABASE = db
       - MYSQL_USER = user
 
   app:
      image: nextcloud: fpm
      links:
       - db
     volumes:
       - nextcloud: /var/www/html
     restart: unless-stopped
 
   web:
     image: caddy
     ports:
       - 8080: 80
     links:
       - app
      volumes:
        - ./Caddyfile:/etc/caddy/Caddyfile
        - caddy_data:/data
      volumes_from:
        - app
      restart: unless-stopped
```

save

```
ctrl + x
y
enter
```

**Create a Caddyfile under current dir (ncfpm in our example)**

`nano Caddyfile`

paste

```
: 80 {
 
         root * / var / www / html
         file_server
 
         php_fastcgi app: 9000
         header {
                 # enable HSTS
                 # Strict-Transport-Security max-age = 31536000;
         }
 
         redir /.well-known/carddav /remote.php/dav 301
         redir /.well-known/caldav /remote.php/dav 301
 
         # .htaccess / data / config / ... should not be accessible from outside
         @forbidden {
                 path /.htaccess
                 path / data / *
                 path / config / *
                 path / db_structure
                 path /.xml
                 path / README
                 path / 3rdparty / *
                 path / lib / *
                 path / templates / *
                 path / occ
                 path /console.php
         }
 
         respond @forbidden 404
 
 }
 ```

save

```
ctrl + x
y
enter
```

**create the containers**

`docker-compose up -d`

> go to localhost:8080
> create an admin account
> note down user name / password you'll have to I had to rebuild you you forget this

**allowed domains**

> The container supports all php occ commands but we must first declare user and container name.

`docker ps`

> copy nextcloud:fpm container id

`docker exec --user www-data container_id php occ config: system: set trusted_domains 2 --value = your_domain_name_here`

`docker stop container_id`

`docker start container_id`


**reverse proxy**

if you have caddy2 on host

`nano /etc/caddy/Caddyfile`

add

```
your_domain_name: an_open_port {
    reverse_proxy localhost: 8080
}
```

**rebuild**

In case you need to rebuild the containers, you must delete what they have created


`docker ps -a`

`copy cotnainer id`

`docker kill container_id`

`docker rm container_id`

`docker volume ls`

`copy volume id`

`docker volume inspect volume_id`

copy mount point

`ls mount_point`

check what is inside if it is what you want to delete

`docker volume rm volume_id`

repeat for ncfpm_web_1, ncfpm_app_1, ncfpm_db_1


alternatevly 


`docker system prune`

`docker volume prune`

`docker image prune -a`



rebuild with

`docker-compose up -d`



**mount external storage on nextcloud: fpm docker container**

You can mount your external drives,  mapping their mount path to /var/www/html/data in the container.

```
volumes:
      - nextcloud:/var/www/html 
      - /media/TuxDriveA/nextcloud:/var/www/html/data
```

**Redirect to https and trusted domains**

Edit tye config/config.php file in the mapped nextcloud volume 

```
'trusted_domains' => 
  array (
    0 => '192.168.1.210:8080',
    2 => 'cloud.v.flix',
  ),
'overwriteprotocol' => 'https',
'overwritewebroot' => '/',
overwrite.cli.url' => 'https://cloud.v.flix',
'trusted_proxies' => ['192.168.1.210'], #your ip
```

**Select datatbase**

The nextcloud default is sqlite.

For better performance we can choose mysql or postgres during the initial setup.

We have added the directive of mariadb which is a mysql database in docker-compose.

We need to tell nextcloud how to use it.

From storage & database in initial setup, select mysql and fill in the:

MYSQL_PASSWORD
MYSQL_DATABASE
MYSQL_USER

As you filled them in in compose file.

In the database url we need to fill the container name of the database and the port that runs internally in the container, we don't need to expose the mariadb port to the host.

We can see this specific information with:

`docker ps`

In my case it is:

`440d29c62efc mariadb "docker-entrypoint.s..."   About an hour ago Up About an hour 3306/tcp nextcloud-nc-db-1`

So in the database url field of the initial setup of nextcloud I will enter:

`nextcloud-nc-db-1:3306`

If you have chosen admin user and complete the setup without having selectimg another database you can delete the data folder and the config/config.php file and add the config/CAN_INSTALL file instead and run compose again to restart the initial setup from scratch.

You can also convert the db from the nextcloud cli

docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_database/db_conversion.html

[source](https://caddy.community/t/example-docker-nextcloud-fpm-caddy-v2-webserver/9407)

**Android app**

There was an open pull request for mutual TLS support [Jere](https://github.com/nextcloud/android/pull/11314).
Nextcloud team rejected it.
There is a fork that merges that pull request in to a GH repo and creates apk releases [here](https://github.com/basharkey/nextcloud-android/releases/)

Serverside, you can follow my Tut [here](https://ippocratis.github.io/Mutual-tls/) to set up caddy reverse proxy to use mtls auth.
